# NN-for-FHSS-Classification
This repository contains the implementation of the artificial neural network (ANN) for the classification of FHSS Signals by using estimated parameters such as hop frequencies and hop durations.

Frequency-hopping spread spectrum (FHSS) spreads the signal over a wide bandwidth where the carrier frequencies change rapidly according to a pseudorandom number making signal classification difficult. Classification becomes more complex with the presence of additive white Gaussian noise (AWGN) and interference due to background signals. In this paper, an artificial neural network (ANN) based system is proposed to classify FHSS signals in the presence of AWGN and background signal. The probability of correct classification (PCC) of the FHSS signals is computed by the linear discriminant (LD) and ANN. Based on the signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) range at 0.9 PCC, the performance of the LD and ANN respectively is 5.1 dB and 2.5 dB in the presence of AWGN only, whereas their performance is 14 dB and 2.3 dB when the background signal is present. Consequently, the ANN-based system outperformed the LD method by between 2.6 and 11.7 dB of SNR.

# Datasets and Codes
In the codes folder, the datasets generated under different cases are present inside the strongest_wifi, strong_wifi, and weak_wifi folders. The codes are available in the P3_03 folder, run the .mat files named NN_Imb_5foldCV, NN_ROS_5foldCV, and NN_SMOTE_5foldCV to test the classifier under imbalanced and balanced data proportions. The dataset can be generated by running main files under different SNR levels as explained in the paper. 

# Cite this work if you find it useful
Khan, M. T. et al. (2022). Classification of FHSS Signals in a Multi-Signal Environment by Artificial Neural Network.” International Journal of Computing and Digital Systems, vol. 11, no. 1, pp. 775-789. 
DOI: http://dx.doi.org/10.12785/ijcds/110163
